# CS-320_Portfolio

When writing and designing a software system, the easiest way that a programmer can help ensure that the code that they are writing is functional, and secure, is to design, build, and include a testing suite. The testing suite that we include with our software should both exercise the all of the code that we have written, as well as test that the intended behaviors of the system are functioning as intended. To go one step further towards ensuring that the system that we have built is functioning in the ways that we intended, we can build an automated testing framework along with the code as we are writing it. Two of the most preferable methods for building this style of system would be to use Behavior Driven Development, or Test Driven Development. Both of these development styles focus on writing the tests that will test the individual behaviors or units of code before we have written any code. We start with the test, and then write the code that will make the test pass. We then refactor the code so that it removes duplicate / repeated code, and clean it up. We drive development in small incremental steps. This allows us to be more flexible with the implementations that we choose to use. These two development styles fall under the Agile frameworks, and fit in well with other software design strategies such as Continuous Integration. By creating our unit tests and code in small increments, and then regularly committing this code, we can create a system that is both functional, and flexible to the types of design changes that are regularly required in the professional software development world. Other than the implementation strategies used, the other single most important tool for ensuring that the code that we write is secure, is to always use industry best practices and guidelines when choosing methods of implementation for our systems. A well developed source for these practices would be for example, Oracle's "Secure Coding Guidelines for Java SE." 

One of the most effective ways to interpret user needs, and then to incorporate them into the program is with well defined and written requirements documents. The requirements documents are the tools that developers use as guidelines to ensure that the code that they are writing is meeting the needs of the customer / client in a way that will deliver to them the value that they are expecting from their application. We take these requirements, break them down into small, well defined behaviors. These behaviors are what we use as the core building blocks / units of our applications. 

If we are using a Scrum style of Agile development to design our system, these behaviors / units would be what we create our user story cards out of. User stories are small segments or behaviors of the application that are used to illustrate a requirement that the client / customer has in story form. They paint a picture so to speak, of how the client will be using a feature of the application, so that the developers can be sure that they are implementing said features in a way that delivers the expected value of that feature.
